Highlights
•
As the first attempt, the proposed model’s simultaneous output of multiple sensors achieves higher efficiency of grain temperature forecasting.
•
As an echo of the call, the proposed model’s focus on spatiotemporal correlations of temperature data facilitates higher accuracy of grain temperature forecasting.
•
A continuous temperature field of the entire granary is realized to access temperature changes in the areas that were excluded in the coverage of sensors.
Abstract
Grain temperature forecasting is crucial to ventilation management in granary, as it facilitates precautions against grain mold caused by grain temperature increase. Despite of the capability in the feature extraction of nonlinear temperature data, frontier forecasting models empowered by artificial intelligence are found to be limited in the forecast efficiency and accuracy. All existing models show insufficient efficiency as their outputs are limited to either single representative sensors or average temperature values of certain layers at a time. Most of these models fail to take into account a spatial topology of the sensor network, which hinders higher forecast accuracy. This paper therefore proposes a multi-output and spatiotemporal model that combines Graph Convolution Neural Networks (GCN) and Transformer to address such issues. GCN captures the spatial correlations of the sensors and topological information of the sensor network in the granary. Transformer captures both long-term and short-term temporal features and describe temporal dependencies. Drawing on a real-granary dataset from the granary of Shaanxi, China, the proposed model is constructed whose performance is evaluated and compared with those of four existing models. Results demonstrate that the proposed model outperforms others by MAE and RMSE. Furthermore, a continuous temperature field of the entire granary is enabled by a three-dimensional interpolation based on the forecast results, which makes accessible the temperature conditions of all locations besides the discrete ‘sensored’ areas.
Introduction
China, as the world’s largest producer, consumer, and importer of grain (Ghose, 2014), ranks first in East Asia by its considerable amount of grain loss. The amount per year was reported to be approximately 35 million tons, equaling 8.1% of the country’s total grain production (Xue et al., 2017) with relative yield losses at 33%, 23%, and 9% of wheat, rice, and maize respectively. By 2021, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), China’s grain production was expected to reach 682.85 million tons. The country’s annual postharvest losses of grains were estimated to dissipate almost 15% of the total production (FAO, 2021), which would be a waste of over 100 million tons of grain before consumption. Such a huge loss is found to have severe impacts on natural resources of which the most common types include carbon footprint, freshwater, cropland, and fertilizers (Kummu et al., 2012). With reference to equations of grain loss and natural resources, China’s grain loss in 2021, reported by FAO, equals a loss of natural resources of either 420 million tons carbon footprint (Zhang et al., 2017), or 26.34 billion m3 freshwater (Sun et al., 2018), or 36.65 million acres cropland (Liu et al., 2013), or 3.824 million tons fertilizers (Li et al., 2020a), which is similar to a medium-size country’s possession of each of these natural resources such as the United Kingdom (Xue et al., 2021). Beyond these alarming reports on grain loss, China’s grain production is challenged by the increasing cost of agricultural production, localization of water use (Heller et al., 2021), and constraint of cropland (Ray et al., 2012). The above concerns entail a shift of focus from increasing grain production to reduce grain loss.
Storage process is found critical to the success in reducing grain loss, which is especially the case to developing countries marked by poor grain storage management, such as China (Jayas, 2012). FAO reported of China in 2021 a loss rate of 6% during process of grain storage (Fao, 2011) which was a waste of 54.6 out of 910 million tons of grain stored in the country’s granaries. This amount of grain loss could be translated as consumptions of either 458.9 million tons of fertilizer or 31.61 billion cubic meters of agricultural water. China’s great storage capacity warns about emergent measures to be taken against grain loss. For grain safety, grain temperature is of great importance as the temperature above critical points can cause mold, heat, and insect infestation which are major causes of grain loss (Jia et al., 2000). In China’s granaries, real-time monitoring of temperature of the stored grain piles has been realized by deploying sensor arrays in the granary (Zhao et al., 2020). However, interpretation of the temperature data is subject to workers’ knowledge and experience, due to which belated or incorrect interpretations can occur, to thus potentiate the hazards mentioned above. Therefore, high quality of stored grain entails accurate forecasting of grain temperature which can replace subjective interpretations.
In the area of grain temperature forecasting, prior research has made progresses in various aspects. For example, artificial intelligence empowers frontier forecasting models to extract features of nonlinear temperature data (Kamilaris and Prenafeta-Boldú, 2018). Nevertheless, three challenges remain to hinder both higher forecast efficiency and accuracy. 1) All existing models are inefficient due to a shared limitation of single output and they are incapable of simultaneous output of the forecast results of multiple sensors, which compromise to output data either from single representative sensors or as average temperature values of certain layers at a time (Wang et al., 2020). The particularity of the data, derived from technological limitations in modeling, could diminish the reliability and accuracy of the forecast results. In practice, the failure in the simultaneous output of multiple sensors could hinder workers to keep updated on the temperature conditions of different locations in the granary. 2) In most models focusing on the temporal sequence of data, the lack of a spatial topology of the sensor network impedes a comprehensive inspection of the grain temperature changes of one sensor influenced by those of neighbor ones, which requires the model to consider the spatial relation of sensors. A spatiotemporal sequence of data is thus found of critical importance in improving forecast accuracy because the porosity of grain pile that allows spatial transfers of heat and moisture implies a spatial correlation of sensors in neighbor piles. The spatial correlation of sensors has been acknowledged in several studies, which is yet in need of further expansions. 3) Due to the discrete interspersion of sensors in the granary, a continuous temperature field of the entire granary has been so far inaccessible. The sensors in discrete locations present temperature data that is likewise isolated in space. The lack of spatial continuity in the data hinders the construction of a temperature field covering the entire granary that is characterized by a thorough visualization of grain temperature changes, especially of the ‘unsensored’ areas where no sensors are equipped.
To address these problems, this paper proposes a fusion model of Graph Convolution Neural Networks (GCN) (Kipf and Welling, 2016) and Transformer (Vaswani et al., 2017), referred to hereafter as Combining GCN and Transformer Networks (CGTNs), as the first attempt in grain temperature forecasting to realize the simultaneous output of data of multiple sensors, meanwhile echoing the call for spatiotemporal variables. Transformer is a Encoder-Decoder architecture with multi-head self-attention mechanism. Over the past few years, it has gained significant traction for time series processing due to its ability to model both short-term and long-term time series (Wen et al., 2022). This is achieved through the multi-head attention mechanism that forms an integral part of the Transformer's architecture. Upon the realization of these improvements, a continuous temperature field of the granary is constructed via a spatial interpolation based on forecast results, which could make accessible grain temperature of the unsensored areas. Finally, an improved grain temperature forecasting system, featuring CGTNs that is characterized by greater efficiency and accuracy, is established to facilitate early detections of abnormal temperature thus timely preventive measures such as ventilation can be taken to reduce grain loss (Wang et al., 2010). The contributions of this study, as corresponding solutions to the spotted limitations, are specified as follows. 1) Higher efficiency in forecasting could be achieved by the simultaneous multiple output of CGTNs. It responds to the limitation of single-point output, where one value does not represent the temperature field of the whole granary, which could promise CGTNs wide industrial implementations in various types of granaries, e.g., flat bin, silo. In virtue of the integration of GCN and Transformer, CGTNs is capable of treating grain temperature data as spatiotemporal data. GCN is utilized to capture the spatial correlations of sensors and topological information of the sensor network in the granary. Transformer is used to capture both long-term and short-term temporal features and to describe the temporal dependencies in grain temperature data based on the analysis of dynamic temperature changes. Towards higher forecast accuracy, this fusion of GCN and Transformer enables CGTNs to process both historical and topological temperature data. 3) Drawing on the three-dimension interpolation, a continuous temperature field of the granary characterized by the spatial continuity of data could be realized. To do so, cubic interpolation is applied to estimate the grain temperature at unsensored locations based on the forecast results of the sensored areas. The achievement of this marks a translation of data anomalies occurred in unsensored areas to common data as that in the sensored areas.
The remainder of this article is organized as follows. Section 2 contains a review of relevant literature to summarize three approaches of grain temperature forecasting. Section 3 introduces of the focal dataset the description, processing, and analysis. Section 4 elaborates the design of the proposed multi-output and spatiotemporal model. Section 5 presents the performance evaluation of the proposed model. Section 6 concludes the paper. A schematic diagram is provided as Fig. 1 to illustrate the process of granary temperature field modeling. Initially, a white noise test is conducted to ensure that the temperature time series is not a white noise series (i.e. a purely random series), thus demonstrating the feasibility of further analysis. Subsequently, temporal and spatial correlation analyses are performed to establish the ability to model and analyze the temperature data in both domains. The CGTNs model is then constructed through spatio-temporal modeling, followed by the interpolation of discrete points in three-dimensional space to create a continuous temperature field that reflects the temperature at any point in the bin.
Section snippets
Literature review
This section reviews in previous research three types of approaches in grain temperature forecasting including computer simulation approaches, machine learning approaches, and deep learning approaches. To elaborate the merit of CGTNs in deep learning, this review contains a brief of the core features, an exemplification of the implementations, and a critical conclusion on the pros and cons of each approach respectively.
Region of study
The grain temperature data used in this paper is accessed from Pucheng No.3 granary located in Pucheng, Shaanxi, China, managed by China Grain Reserves Group Company. The environment of the wheat granary is shown in Fig. 2 from three perspectives. According to the ecological condition under which the grain is stored, a map of seven ecology areas across China is drawn as Fig. 3. Located in the northern China, the focal granary belongs to the fourth area where the stored grain ecology is
Deep learning framework
In the previous section, the correlation analysis concluded that the future temperature data of a sensor should be obtained from both the historical data of the focal sensor and that of its neighbors, which grounds CGTNs as a spatiotemporal forecasting model. In this section, the composition of the model and process of modeling are presented and discussed in detail.
Performance evaluation
In this section, the evaluation of the performance of CGTNs is unfolded in three subsections. Firstly, the settings of the experiment and the involved hyperparameter are presented respectively. Secondly, the performance of CGTNs is evaluated in comparison with four models in the previous research. For a triangulation of the result, CGTNs is extended to the granaries in Pucheng city other than the focal one for the modeling. Finally, the construction of a continuous temperature field is realized 
Conclusions
Towards higher efficiency and accuracy in grain temperature forecasting, this paper proposes an innovative model characterized by the simultaneous output of multiple sensors and the spatiotemporal explorations of data, empowered by the fusion of GCN and Transformer. Grounded upon CGTNs, a continuous temperature field of the granary is realized via interpolation, which makes accessible the temperature conditions of the unsensored areas. Such improvements respond as valid solutions to the
Declaration of Competing Interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgements
This work was funded by Technology Innovation Center for Land Engineering and Human Settlements by Shaanxi Land Engineering Construction Group Co., Ltd and Xi'an Jiaotong University (201912131-A4) and Sinograin Chengdu Storage Research Institute of China Grain Reserves Group Ltd.Company (Science and Technology Project 2023-4). We thank Figdraw (www.figdraw.com) for assistance in drawing Figure 1.